Create c8y-ui-1019-49-5-implementing-new-dashboard-view-133.md (#5)
janhommes/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/c8y-ui-1019-49-5-implementing-new-dashboard-view-133.md

---
date: ""

> title: Implementing new dashboard view (#133)

Author: The Claude AI suggested to use the following title:
```suggestion
title: New dashboard editing features
```

product_area: Application enablement & solutions
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: feat
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Cockpit
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: c8y-ui
ticket: MTM-12345
version: 1019.49.5
---

> - the dashboard editing was changed. You now need to first hit edit, before you can edit a dashboard
>  -  Changes while editing can now be redo or undo
>  - Dashboard changes are stored in a history and can be reset
>  - Typed dashboards (dashboard that are applied to the same device type) can now easier be activated or deactivated and there are more visible information, indicating that and how a typed dashboard is used.
>  - Asset can also use now typed based dashboards if a flag is activated (by default deactivated).

Author: The Claude AI suggested to use the following body:
```suggestion
The dashboard editing has been improved with several new features:

- You now need to first hit "Edit" before you can edit a dashboard. This allows you to view the dashboard without accidentally making changes.

- While editing, dashboard changes can now be redone or undone. This makes experimenting with layouts easier.

- Dashboard changes are stored in a history and can be reset. You can go back to a previous version if needed. 

- Typed dashboards (dashboards applied to specific device types) can now be more easily activated, deactivated, and managed. Additional information shows if and how a typed dashboard is in use.

- Assets can also now use typed dashboards if a flag is activated (off by default). This allows more customization of dashboards by asset type.
```
